DOCS-9684-X12-template (#1179)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: x12-edi/2.5/modules/ROOT/pages/x12-edi-connector-studio.adoc

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure X12 EDI Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

> . <<conigure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.
```

Reviewer: ^^That was a mistake in the template I just fixed in the latest update

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

You must change the default Anypoint configuration to use the X12 EDI connector 2.x.

> NOTE: If Anypoint Studio 7.1.0 and later requires more than the standard memory

Reviewer: This is really not a note and doesn't belong here. It could be an additional configuration topic.

configuration to use the X12 EDI connector 2.x, then you'll need to change the memory
setting for Studio. Edit the `Anypoint.ini` file in the Anypoint Studio
installation directory and change the two lines starting with `-Xms` and `-Xmx` to:

[source,text,linenums]
----
-Xms4096m
-Xmx4096m
----

Setting the Anypoint Studio memory to 4 GB, which is sufficient
for the most common uses of this connector.
////

> // If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:x12-edi-connector-reference.adoc[X12 EDI Reference].

Reviewer: Not sure why this is commented out. It's part of the template.

////
[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

> Add X12 EDI (X12 EDI Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer: Short name is X12 Connector

> Add X12 EDI (X12 EDI Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add X12 EDI (X12 Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.

> . In *Add Modules to Project*, type `X12 EDI:Configuration` in the search field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `x12` in the search field.
```

> . Click X12 EDI:Configuration in *Available modules*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *X12 Connector* in *Available modules*.
```

. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.

> You can configure one of these sources to use with X12 EDI Connector:

Reviewer: The template has two default sources (Scheduler and HTTP). If you are going to remove the Scheduler one, then change the above line so it's not saying "one of these sources"

* HTTP Listener +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port.

For example, to configure an HTTP Listener source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP Listener source in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for X12 EDI Connector, follow these steps:

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select *X12 EDI:Configuration* and then select the desired operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *X12 EDI* and then select the desired operation.
```

Reviewer: These changes are to reflect what is actually in the UI when you go through these steps. I installed X12 Connector and am verifying the UI.

////
X12 EDI Connector supports <mention the types of authorization the connector supports>.
////
To configure the global element for X12 EDI (X12 EDI Connector), follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
////
. On the *General* tab, configure <authentication method 1, authentication method 2, etc.>, as described in the <<authentication method 1 and authentication 2>> > sections.

The wording of step 3 depends on how many authentication methods the connector uses. If the connector uses only one authentication method, mention it in step 3 and then explain how to configure it in this procedure. If the connector uses multiple authentication methods, mention them in step 3 and then refer to subsections that explain how to configure the authentication methods.
////

You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties.

>  For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
```

. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

> ////

Reviewer: Remove all boilerplate text that doesn't apply

[%header,cols=30s,70a]
|===
|Field |User Action
|Name |Enter the configuration name.
|Connection | Select `Role`.
|Role ARN | Enter the role to assume to gain cross-account access.
|Access Key | Enter the access key provided by X12 EDI.
|Secret Key | Enter the secret key provided by X12 EDI.
|Try Default AWS Credentials Provider Chain | Set to `true` to obtain credentials from the AWS environment.
|Region Endpoint | Select the region endpoint for the service.
|===

The following image shows an example of configuring Role authentication:

.Role authentication fields
image::<image>.png[To configure Role authentication, select *Role* in the *Connection* field and then complete the fields on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use Role authentication. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to Role authentication.
////

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Additional Connector Fields

After you configure a global element for X12 EDI (X12 EDI Connector), configure the the other required fields for the connector.

=== General Tab
////
image::x12-edi-general.jpg[General tab properties]
////

> The general tab allows you to configure settings for reading and writing X12 messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *General* tab to configure settings for reading and writing X12 messages.
```

> NOTE: To use the Functional Acknowledgment schema type (997 or 999) it must match the **Generate 999 Functional Acknowledgments** setting on the Parser tab (`false` for 997, `true` for 999).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To use the Functional Acknowledgment schema type (997 or 999) it must match the **Generate 999 Functional Acknowledgments** setting on the *Parser* tab (`false` for 997, `true` for 999).
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|Form and validation |X12 form and validation (standard X12, HIPAA SNIP Type 1, or HIPAA SNIP Type 2)
|Schema definitions |Manually create or edit the list of schema definitions for the message structures to use. They all need to use the same form (either X12 or HIPAA).
|Character encoding |X12 character encoding, used for both send and receive messages
|Character set |X12 character set allowed in string data (BASIC, EXTENDED, or UNRESTRICTED)
|Substitution character |String substitution character, used to replace invalid characters in string data
|Version identifier suffix |Version identifier code suffix, specifying a value appended to the base schema version in the GS08 Version / Release / Industry Identifier Code field
|===

=== Identity Tab
////
image::x12-edi-identity.jpg[Identity tab properties]
////

> If used, the Identity tab lets you configure the Interchange Control Header (ISA) and Functional Group Header (GS) identifier values for you and your trading partner in the X12 EDI connector configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *Identity* tab to configure the Interchange Control Header (ISA) and Functional Group Header (GS) identifier values for you and your trading partner in the X12 EDI connector configuration.
```

If configured, then the values are verified when reading an input message and used as the defaults when writing an output message (if no value output data is specified).

> You can set the values for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the values for the:
```

> * the Interchange ID qualifier and Interchange ID for your Mule application and partner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Interchange ID qualifier and Interchange ID for your Mule application and partner
```

> * the Application Code for Mule and partner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Application Code for Mule and partner
```
